One of the first things you probably do every morning is look out the window to see what the weather is like. Looking outside and listening to the day’s forecast helps you decide what clothes you will wear and maybe even what you will do throughout the day. If you don’t have school and the weather looks sunny, you might visit the zoo or go on a picnic. A rainy day might make you think about visiting a museum or staying home to read.The weather affects us in many ways. Day-to-day changes in weather can influence how we feel and the way we look at the world. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, and blizzards, can disrupt many people’s lives because of the destruction they cause.The term “weather” refers to the temporary conditions of the atmosphere, the layer of air that surrounds the Earth. We usually think of weather in terms of the state of the atmosphere in our own part of the world. But weather works like dropping a pebble in water—the ripples eventually affect water far away from where the pebble was dropped. The same happens with weather around the globe. Weather in your region will eventually affect the weather hundreds or thousands of kilometers away. For example, a snowstorm around Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, might eventually reach Chicago, Illinois, as it moves southeast through the U.S. Weather doesn’t just stay in one place. It moves, and changes from hour to hour or day to day. Over many years, certain conditions become familiar weather in an area. The average weather in a specific region, as well as its variations and extremes over many years, is called climate. For example, the city of Las Vegas in the U.S. state of Nevada is generally dry and hot. Honolulu, the capital of the U.S. state of Hawaii, is also hot, but much more humid and rainy. Climate changes, just like weather. However, climate change can take hundreds or even thousands of years. Today, the Sahara Desert in northern Africa is the largest desert in the world. However, several thousand years ago, the climate in the Sahara was quite different. This “Green Sahara” experienced frequent rainy weather.
